.TH QDPRESS 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-press" "SmartMet Tools"
.SH NAME
qdpress \- generate press products from querydata
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qdpress
.RI [ options ]
.I prefile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B qdpress
reads querydata together with a product definition file
.RI ( prefile )
and produces PostScript or ASCII text output for press use. The format
of the definition file is described in the qdpress reference manual
shipped with this package.
.PP
Most input and output paths are read from the SmartMet configuration
namespace
.B press::*
unless overridden on the command line. The product name argument is
appended to the output directory by default; this behaviour can be
disabled with
.BR \-n .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c " conffile"
Configuration file.
.TP
.BI \-p " productname"
Product name. Used as a sub-directory under the output directory unless
.B \-n
is given.
.TP
.BI \-h " pressdir"
Press product source directory. Defaults to
.BR press::path .
.TP
.BI \-o " outdir"
Output directory. Defaults to
.BR press::outpath .
.TP
.B \-n
Do not append the product name to the output directory.
.TP
.BI \-l " logdir"
Log directory. Defaults to
.BR press::logpath .
.TP
.BI \-L " logfile"
Log filename.
.TP
.BI \-s " dayshift"
Shift the reference day by the given number of days.
.SH EXAMPLES
Generate a product using a configuration file:
.PP
.RS 4
qdpress \-c product.conf \-p morning prefile.txt
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qdtext (1),
.BR qdcontour (1),
.BR qdinfo (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-press/issues>.
